---
title: Welcome!
classes: wide
tag: Personal
---
# Who Am I? #
I am not a writer.

Actually, that should more accurately say, I am not a writer *yet*. But this site is part of my effort to change that.

I am, however, a robotics scientist. I work for a research lab that explores autonomy for very unique and challenging environments.
Because of these environments, a lot of existing robotic applications will not work. So we explore new or adapted methods so the
robots can complete their missions. I've worked in this field for about 7 years and have loved every minute of it. Since that time,
I have risen up through the team and now lead the entire lab. We are relatively small, consisting of only about 8 people, but the
entire team is great to work with. Despite taking this leadership role, I still actively engage in research and keep my technical
chops up.

Additionally, I also just recently went back to school part time to obtain my PhD in robotics! I'm fortunate enough that my
employer will fund my research and tuition. So this makes it pretty convenient for me, and I'm excited for this phase of my career.

This PhD path brings me back to why I claim to not be a writer yet. When starting out, I read 
[**The A-Z of the PhD Trajectory**](https://www.evalantsoght.com/2018/06/the-a-z-of-the-phd-trajectory.html) by Eva O. L.
Lantsoght. It is a fantastic book. I highly recommend it for anyone obtaining a PhD. In it, she highlights how "Writing is often
considered as [a researcher's] most important academic skill." This makes sense, since writing is the primary form of communication
for new scientific ideas.

I would rate my writing abilities as just okay. I can get the point across, but it doesn't seem like anything special. Additionally,
I would consider writing my weakest out of all my academic skills. From what I've read, I'm not alone on this either. So I am very
interested in ways to improve this. One idea mentioned in the book is maintaining a blog or other online presence. It offers a way
to practice outside formal papers. It has the added benefit of allowing me to develop my academic identity and participate in the
community as I go through my PhD. That has me convinced, so here we are! This site aims to do just that.

# Goals #

I am aiming to do several things with this site:

1. **Practice My Writing** I believe I have gotten the point across on this one above.
2. **Share My Progress** As I continue through my PhD journey, I'd like to share some of my experiences. While I have a rather
unique situation, there are bound to be things that are useful to share with others pursuing their PhDs as well.
3. **Share Information** This will include a range of content that I find useful. Some of it will be reviews of other resources
out on the web. Others will be tutorials on using certain tools or features.
4. **Document Projects** Occasionally, I somehow have time to work on projects for fun. I try to always make sure to thoroughly
document my work, including READMEs and tutorials. This site will highlight some of those works.

# Who are You? #

I am primarily targeting this at other members of the autonomy and AI community. I have other interests outside of robotics, I
swear! But this site will primarily focus on items of interest to the community, specifically the research community. There may
be a tangent or two if I feel like it though.

Because of that, I tend to assume some familiarity with the field and related skills, such as programming. I always try to explain
things clearly, but I am going to skip a lot of introductory material. You won't see an overview of how neural networks work or
anything like that.

If you have any recommendations for content to include, please let me know! I'm always interested in new ideas and discussions with
the community. But either way, enjoy the site! I recommend checking out [my other posts]({% link _pages/blog.md %}) or some of
[my tutorials]({% link _pages/tutorials.md %})